---
itemId:sw-258
itemType: Software Item Spec
itemTitle: Detail Design Aspect 7: Mako Plan Information View
itemFulfills: Legend display angle ,MMA-3032,MMA-3033,MMA-3034,MMA-3035,MMA-3036,MMA-3037,MMA-3038,MMA-3039,MMA-3040,MMA-3041,MMA-3042,MMA-3043,MMA-3044,MMA-3045,MMA-3046,MMA-3047
itemHasParent: sw-238
Software item type: SDD
---
 
The Plan Info View is launched from Plan Info button located at top right of navigation bar of the Mako Plan View. The Plan Info View displays both femur and tibia without transformation. It also permanently displays the mechanical axes, femur JLA, and tibia JLA.
* The femur JLA and the tibia JLA are obtained from the Mako App Engine ( Stryker Health Cloud) as part of the procedure information downloaded to the Application. The femur JLA and tibia JLA value (degrees) are stored in the Coredata (database) of the Application as
		*​ procedure.plan.lineAngles.femurJlAngle
		* procedure.plan.lineAngles.tibiaJlAngle
* The mechanical axes for the femur and tibia are calculated and draw using the following information​​​​​​:
	* Femur: hipCenter and trochlearCenter (Note: Both values are obtained from the Mako App Engine). A line is drawn between the hipCenter and the trochlearCenter with the hipCenter being the starting point and the trochlearCenter being the endpoint. The color of the line is being set to blue with lengScale set to 0.25 and scaleAnchor set at the endpoint. 
	* Tibia: kneeCenterTibia and angleCenter ( Note: Both values are obtained from the Mako App Engine). A line is drawn between the kneeCenterTibia and angleCenter with the kneeCenterTibia being the starting point and the angleCenter being the endpoint. the color is set to yellow with lengthScale set to 0.25 and scaleAnchor set to the starting point. 