---
itemId:sw-235
itemType: Software Item Spec
itemTitle: Detail Design Aspect 3: Home Feature (iOS Only)
itemFulfills: Automatic refresh ,MMA-2905,MMA-2906,MMA-2907,MMA-2908,MMA-2909,MMA-2911,MMA-2912,MMA-3067,MMA-3068,MMA-3070,MMA-3071,View button 
Software item type: SDD
---
 
The Home Feature UI is only displayed on iOS. It displays a greeting showing the user's name as provided by the StrykerAuth during authentication step.
The Home Feature calls the `fetchProcedures(filters:)` API method on DataClient (whenever the view appears, or is pulled to refresh) to retrieve the available cases for the user matching today's date and subscribes to an AsyncStream that returns a tuple containing the state of both the network request and an array of ProcedureListItems with a scheduled date matching the start and end of the current day's time boundary.
 
If no matching cases were found (due to an underlying error, or because there was no data available to the user), the UI displays a notice saying no cases are available today.
 
If at least one case was found, the UI displays a carousel card view for each case with details about the case using the data fields present in the ProcedureListItem view model. The view model invokes various formatters to format Mako plan data and patient information. Refer to the MyMakoData source code for documentation regarding the formatters.
 
If the user selects a case card, the Home Feature sends a reducer action delegate call back to the Authenticated Feature with the selected case identifier. The Authenticated Feature handles the navigation to display the case details.
 
If the user selects the "View" button for the case count heading, the Home Feature sends a reducer action delegate call back to the Authenticated Feature which handles the navigation to display the case list.
 